Earlier we were looking at
this little tic-tac-toe page,
this little tic-tac-toe game.
Yeah, what we're gonna do is
just quickly walk through and
play tic-tac-toe by using
our newfound object and
array skills to manipulate
the built in object document and
all of its many different properties that
we now know what we're dealing with here.
So what we've got here is a page that
displays information about the players.
Right now, earlier we had been working
through, just working with the strings
themselves that are in these little
divs and spans and things like that.
But right now I'm going to start
thinking in more javascripting terms.
So I'm going to start representing
the data that we need in order to do
stuff on our page with objects.
So let's create an object.
In this case, I would suggest we use
an array to represent the two different
players that we have in this game.
So in this case, our game,
we're only gonna play one time and
our players are not gonna change.
So how should I declare
a new array called players
that I don't think is ever
gonna need to change?
How would I create a new
variable that points to players?
That's not gonna change?
>> Const.
>> Const, beautiful.
Okay, so
const players is gonna be an array.
And within this array, I want two objects.
I want each object to
represent one of the players.
I'm gonna be the first player, so I'm
going to say that this object is going to
have a name, property Anjana,
if I can spell my own name right.
Then I'm gonna use a comma to
create a new property of my symbol.
And I'm gonna claim the x symbol here.
Now, I'm gonna play against
all of the rest of you.
So let's create another object.
So right now, players has one thing in it.
Name Anjana symbol x.
Now I want to add another
thing to my player's array.
How do I do that?
I wanna add a second thing to
my player's array at the end.
What's the method that we use
to add stuff to an array?
>> Push.
>> Push, great.
Okay, so players push.
I'm gonna push on a new object that
represents the other player and
that's gonna be all of you.
Everyone else is your name.
[LAUGH] And I'm gonna add another
property to represent your symbol.
So what do I type to represent
that everyone else is gonna
be playing with the O?
>> Symbol.
And then I wanna put a value on it so
I need a colon, and
then the symbol itself which
will be the string 0, great.
Okay, so now players.length should be 2.
And if I want to get, let's say,
okay, we had, what was it?
Document.getElementById, I
think it was called p1-name.
TextContent, right now it's Anjana.
Okay, so that one is fine,
that one didn't change.
If I want to update the textContent
of the other player, in this case,
I think it was called p2-name.
So this is review from yesterday.
Right now it says it's Mack, but
it's not, it should be all of you.
So how do I use my players
object to set the textContent
of this element to
the second player's name?
Let's walk through it together.
So I want to assign, I want to
change the textContent here, right?
So I'm going to getElementById
p2-name textContent.
And then if I wanna change the value
of this, I can type in equals exactly.
Now, I want the value of this to be
everyone else, how do I get that?
>> Players.
So we had in our players, I mean, so
our player's array has two things in it.
The first one is an object
with name Anjana.
And the second one is an object
with name of everyone else.
So it's that second one that I want.
So players index 1 with
the square brackets dot name.
And if we've done this right,
then the page updated.
So now y'all are everyone else.
Okay, so now let us actually
play some tic-tac-toe, haha.
So how can we get access to
the different squares in our board so
that we can actually play some symbols in
there and play our game of tic-tac-toe.
So let's take a look at our HTML.
We have this div with ID board,
which represent the whole board here and
all of its squares.
And within that div,
we have a bunch of these other divs,
which have class equals square.
So there's nine of them cuz we have
9 squares on a tic-tac-toe board.
So how can we get access
to all of those squares so
that then I can manipulate them.
So as usual there's a couple of
different ways that we can do this.
So one thing we can take
advantage of is the fact that,
these square divs have this class
square applied to them, and
nothing else in our document
has that class applied to it.
So one thing we could do is we could use
the class of these elements to pick them
out of the DOM.
And there's a couple of
ways that we can do that.
So we could use our document spell,
getElementsByClassName and
pass in the name of
the class we care about.
That gives us this collection
of HTML elements, so
nine of them that are all
these divs square.
Or we could use a different way
of picking out elements by their
class name which is
using our CSS selectors.
So we could do document querySelector, and
in this case we want querySelectorAll
because we want multiple things,
we want all of the elements
matching class square and
then we have to pass in
the CSS dial selector for
an element with a certain class which
is gonna be .square, period square.
So that's gonna give us, it's a slightly
different type of collection but
it's still giving us this
collection of these nine squares.
So either of those will work.
Or if we didn't have like class names to
go off of, we could also use the fact that
all of these divs these square divs are
contained within my div that has ID board.
And so we already have access to
our board ID in our board variable.
And we have a property built into elements
with children that is .children, so
that's another thing we could do.
Both would be valid here.
Okay, so
now I want to play in the center square.
I like to start there usually
when I play tic-tac-toe.
So I'm going to try to pick out from
the squares array, the div that is so
these divs go they go left to
right top to bottom, so 1, 2, 3,
4, the fifth square in our
collection of nine squares.
So that's gonna be squares, 4.
And what I'm going to do is put some
textContent in here of my symbol.
Okay, now it's your turn.
Which square would you like to play in?
Top left, bottom right.
>> 0.
>> Left middle.
>> Square 0.
>> Top left.
>> Yes.
>> Okay, so how do you do that?
OJ, walk me through.
>> Square 0.textContent = 0.
>> Okay, well I'm not gonna
let you get off that easy.
I don't want you to just type in
the letter the lazy way like I did.
I want you to pull it out
of our players object
which has the symbol that
each player is gonna play.
So for example the object with
name everyone else has symbol 0.
So how could we do it that way?
>> Players1.symbol.
>> Beautiful.
Okay, so we get the idea,
we don't have to actually finish this
game cuz honestly every tic-tac-toe
game ends in a tie anyway, right?
Like, is it just me, but you get the idea
and if you'd like to play with yourself or
show maybe a friend at home,
how to do this and play with them.
This is just to show that we
can interact with the document,
using our array and
object superpowers that we now have to
manipulate things even within collections,
which for example,
when we looked at these squares,
it's not exactly an array.
It's something called a node list,
which is kind of a built in representation
that JavaScript has of nodes are kind
of elements in that DOM tree.
But it operates similarly to an array,
meaning it has these indices so
we can work with it just like an array.
So this is all suffice it to say that we
can use our newfound powers to do all
kinds of cool stuff to our websites to
make them do whatever we want because
this whole game is about telling
computers to do what we want.
So now we have some extra tools
in our tool belt to do that.
Awesome Possum.
Great work.
Does anyone have questions so far?
Who would win in a tic-tac-toe game
between me and the rest of everyone else?
Hmm, probably all.
[LAUGH]